# Guidelines for the use of html files containing SSANOVA lingual splines for Catalan  two-consonant sequences

The folders ‘Speaker DR’, ‘Speaker ES’, ‘Speaker IM’, ‘Speaker JU’ and ‘Speaker RO’, which you can acces through the website address https://github.com/ClaraRC/Ultrasound-Plotly, include several html files for each Catalan speaker. Each file allows visualizing SSANOVA lingual splines for a number of consonant sequences sharing a common ‘target’ consonant, which is the consonant appearing in the file name, as for example /n/ in the case of the file ‘Cons N’.  These files will appear on the screen after clicking on the subject’s folder. In order to open any file you can either download it into your computer by using the ‘Save link as’ option, or else go to https://htmlpreview.github.io/ and paste the file path into the empty cell that appears on the screen. (Only the former option is available for opening the ‘Cons P’ files for subjects ES and JU due apparently to the fact that they are too big).


 All files except for K2 allow visualizing lingual splines for several heterosyllabic C#C sequences sharing a given target consonant, which may appear as C1 in coda position and as C2 in onset position. The target consonants are /p/ (P), /t/ (T), /n/ (N), /l/ (L), /s/ (S), /r/ (R), NY (/ɲ/), TX (/tʃ/) and /k, g/ (K1); the C#C sequences appearing in the file labeled FRICATIVE SEQUENCES are /s#s/, /s#ʃ/, /ʃ#s/ and /ʃ#ʃ/. Thus, for example, if you click on the file labelled ‘Cons S’ you will be able to see the spline data for the sequences /sl/ (SL), /st/ (ST), /sn/ (SN), /sp/ (SP), /sɲ/ (SNY) and /sk/ (SK) as well as for the reverse clusters  /ls/ (LS), /ts/ (TS), /ns/ (NS), /ps/ (PS), /ɲs/ (NYS) and /ks/ (KS). In addition to the velar+liquid and liquid+velar C#C sequences, the folder K2 contains lingual splines for the syllable-initial clusters /kl, kɾ, gl, gɾ/, which have been enclosed within parentheses in order to distinguish them from the corresponding C#C combinations.
 
 
Once you get inside a file, the consonant sequences whose lingual splines may be displayed appear on the left of the graph with the target consonant highligthed in boldface. Lingual configuration data for those sequences include splines computed at 5 time points (C1 on, C1 mp, C1 off, C2 mp, C2 off) if there is no burst or opening period at the offset of C1, or else at 6 time points (C1 on, C1 mp, C1 off, C2 on, C2 mp, C2 off) if this period is available. You can view the SSANOVA lingual splines for a given consonant cluster at all 5 or 6 time points by clicking on any of the corresponding buttons appearing on the left of the graph. Thus, if you open the file for consonant S and click on the button ‘SL’, you will see the splines for the cluster /sl/ at C1 onset (SL-C1 on), at C1 midpoint (SL-C1 mp) and at all succesive time points. You can change the spline colours by clicking on the buttons placed above the graph: the splines will appear in different colours if you clik on the ‘One colour per time point’ button (in this case the splines for C1 will appear in different shades of blue and the splines for C2 in different shades of red), and in a single colour whether it be black or in another colour if you click on the ‘Single colour splines’ or ‘One colour per group’ buttons, respectively. Information about xy location, C#C sequence and time point may be obtained by placing the cursor anywhere on a given spline. 


You can also view the splines for a given target consonant in all consonant sequences at a given time point by clicking on any of the buttons ‘Target C1 on’, ‘Target C1 mp’, etc. placed above the graph. Thus, for example, if you open the file for consonant S and click on ‘Target C1 on’, the splines at C1=/s/ onset for /sl/ (SL), /st/ (ST), /sn/ (SN), /sp/ (SP), /sɲ/ (SNY) and /sk/ (SK) should appear on the graph. On the other hand, if you click on ‘Target C2 mp’ you should be able to see the splines at C2=/s/ midpoint for /ls/ (LS), /ts/ (TS), /ns/ (NS), /ps/ (PS), /ɲs/ (NYS) and /ks/ (KS). Again you can have all splines in the same colour by clicking on ‘Single colour splines’ or ‘One colour per time point’ or in different colours by clicking on ‘One colour per group’.
	
	
You can also display the splines for the non-target consonants (i.e., all contextual consonants appearing adjacent to the target consonant and thus, e.g., /l/ L, /t/ T, /n/ N, /p/ P, /ɲ/ NY and /k/ K in the case of target S) at a given time point by clicking on any of the buttons ‘Non-target C1 on’, ‘Non-target C1 mp’, etc. Spline colours may be changed as above.


You can remove one or more splines being displayed by just clicking on the labels appearing on the right of the graph. There other things that you can do with the ‘zoom’, ‘pan’, ‘autoscale’  and ‘reset axes’ icons appearing on the screen above the uppermost buttons. 
