
# Guidelines for the use of html files containing SSANOVA lingual splines for Catalan  VCV sequences

The folders ‘Speaker DR’, ‘Speaker ES’, ‘Speaker IM’, ‘Speaker JU’ and ‘Speaker RO’, which you can acces through the website address https://github.com/ClaraRC/Ultrasound-Plotly, include several html files for VCV sequences produced by each Catalan speaker. Each file allows visualizing SSANOVA lingual splines for a number of consonants at C midpoint and for a number of vowels at the midpoint of V1 and V2. The consonants are /p/ (P), /t/ (T), /d/ (D), /n/ (N), /l/ (L), /s/ (S), /ɾ/ (R), /r/ (RR), NY (/ɲ/), LL (/ʎ/) and X (/ʃ/) and /k/ (K); the vowels are /i/ (I), /e/ (E), /a/ (A), /o/ (O), /u/ (U). Lingual spline data for each consonant or vowel will appear on the screen once you open any file located inside a given subject’s folder by either downloading it into your computer with the ‘Save link as’ option, or by going to https://htmlpreview.github.io/ and pasting the file path into the empty cell that appears on the screen. 
Once you open the ‘Consonant’ file, you will view the SSANOVA lingual splines for a given consonant at C midpoint by clicking on any of the consonant buttons appearing on the left of the graph. Thus, if you open the file for consonant S, you will see the splines for /isi, ese, asa, oso, usu/ at the midpoint of /s/. On the other hand, if you click on the button for one of the vowels you will see the splines for that vowel at the midpoint of all consonants. You can change the spline colours by clicking on the buttons placed above the graph. Information about xy location and VCV sequence may be obtained by placing the cursor anywhere on a given spline.  
You can also display the splines for a given vowel at its midpont by opening the ‘V1’ or ‘V2’ files. By clicking on, let us say, the button for /i/ (I) you will see the splines for /t/ (T), /d/ (D), /n/ (N), /l/ (L), /s/ (S), /ɾ/ (R), /r/ (RR), NY (/ɲ/), LL (/ʎ/) and X (/ʃ/) at the midpoint of V1=/i/ or V2=/i/. There are no spline data for consonants /p/ (P) and /k/ (K) at the vowels midpoint.
	  In all cases you can remove one or more splines being displayed by just clicking on the labels appearing on the right of the graph. There other things that you can do with the ‘zoom’, ‘pan’, ‘autoscale’  and ‘reset axes’ icons appearing on the screen above the uppermost buttons.
